in all my years of interviewing
so-called funny people I've often been
faced with the sad truth that many of
them aren't that funny in real life not
so ricky gervais z' but along with the
laughs this dangerously sharp comedian
also have you wincing an agony or
cringing with embarrassment at some of
his observations
Ricky's rule is there isn't any topic
that can't be joked about it's landed
him in plenty of trouble but as he says
he couldn't give up he's a bloke who
died by falling asleep Henry Francis
Bray who fell asleep maybe he was sort
of sitting on a tall pole and then you
would die falling asleep I like a spy
Milligan's
Ricky Gervais believes that to
appreciate life you need to contemplate
death a posthumous Awards no good to
anyone give me it now which is why on
this cold London day I find myself
walking through a graveyard with one of
the world's funniest name I love English
graveyards yeah they're great
this remind us what it is that it's
finite and all the things we care about
now mean fuck all they mean nothing the
things that people got furious with you
about yeah yeah yes fullness of two are
they love me when I'm dead before he
dies he seems bent on offending as many
people as possible you're so much better
than last year's audience
now they had a right stick up their ass
thank you but the more wicked he is the
more he is loved and the richer he gets
I grew up in poverty with nothing right
but the point was to pay away then have
a laugh that was the men the women
carried on working obviously on the eve
of launching his new series Rickey is
welcoming me to his world down in the
posh London suburb of hamster tell me
where you go here 28 but we've had it
knocked into one so family can't stay
until it's too easy these days to put a
foot wrong dude got my posh trainers
that I put on a TV this your Ricky
Gervais who simply doesn't care the
comfortable shoes are important that's
all I care about
I don't I'm clean oh oh we're a sofa
this rubbish yeah I know what sometimes
a notice device grew up in a
working-class council house the youngest
of four children he was known as the
mistake in his family he nurtured early
dreams of being a scientist philosopher
and a rock star but somehow his sense of
humor got in the way where did the
presumption come that you could actually
make a living terrific living by being
funny well I didn't I sort of fell into
it I was always doing it I was always
having a laugh everyone does it you know
the funniest person you know isn't a
professional comedian
it's your mate or your dad or your uncle
I was always trying to be funny and and
you know and you get a job and you and
you maybe it would laugh at work and at
weekends I never really thought of it as
a profession I can wake up one morning
and go oh I don't feel like working
today can I just stay in bed all day no
better ask the boss David can I stay in
bed all day yes you can David both me
I'm not it's not me in bed with another
bloke called David it's one of those
great showbiz success story
see how his boring office job turned out
to be a creative apprenticeship nast the
Polaroid for a celebrated television
series aptly named the office private
life and just to flesh out David Brent
the man is there a better how David
quipped why buy a book when you can join
the library suddenly at 40 years of age
the unknown Ricky Gervais and his
awkward character David Brent were world
famous I mean when I won the BAFTA right
and for David been the first BAFTA I won
and I was at home that night sitting
there with Jane and you know 41 years
old with a BAFTA there and I said why
didn't I do this earlier and she said
because you wouldn't be any good at it
you got to live a real lion your
lifelong pal exactly and you have to
you'd have to use to live a real life to
be able to write about real life and my
girlfriend of over 30 years
Jane although she hasn't really
contributed to my career no no I'm
saying this is submissive sort of all me
in fact thinking about it she has done
fuck-all I like you so much more because
you filthy rich but you made it yourself
you didn't inherit it and you made it
between your ears by being one of the
funniest men in English well thank you
and and yeah I mean that is important
that can I borrow ten quid yes yeah no
but that is important to me and you know
I didn't have any money till I was 40
and I didn't much care either
[Music]
after the office came more series you
are guaranteed an Oscar if you play a
mentor with all too willing celebrity
guests you remodeled it very fashion
let's just hope it's big enough
gentlemen
Ricky Gervais and even some not so Loki
emceeing geeks those the last time I
have sex with 200 middle-aged
journalists and
and Europeans with wispy beards the men
were worse chefs come on his latest
Netflix show afterlife her
brother-in-law wants me to try dating
again you need some tips is the darkest
of dark comedies I'll be your date what
role play it's a story of a small-town
journalist working for the local rag
while grappling with the death of his
wife hi I'm Tony I don't want to appear
ageist
where those your own teeth improbably
it's funny painfully so I play a guy who
works for tambry Gazette and it's all
stories like you know woman finds hat in
tree and fat cat lost maybe that looks
like Hitler yeah exactly yet how long
did it take you to master the double
nostril recorder few hours a day for a
few weeks on it oh yeah blimey did me it
in or worth it now though did you ever
try journalism because this is my life
you're doing yeah so because appalling
interviews those awful things we'd get
dragged it all jure knows has been
through that I quite quite like that
when I go to a new place I always look
at the local paper and see you know that
the headline is a blue book overdue I
love that as so much better than another
12 people stabbed to death if their
headline on your local paper is a
something about you know stolen TV you
live in a nice place the best story I
ever did in Britain was as a young
reporter based here was a boy who
sneezed 30 times a minute I lived it
lived in a with myself no with his mum
in a council flat yeah and the air was
sudden it was humidified because he'd be
not sure sure as you might expect life's
not easy for a sneezing man it's how old
was he
ah he was about 18 or 19
we couldn't hold down a job yummy sir
and it was stuck mate was it your vice
moment because what happened she said
decide me one way he can stop if I put
him in the wardrobe let's try the
cupboard so he was in there right with
the mum by and you told him and he was
on camera and he was sneezes it was yes
and then where he goes into the Wardrobe
and I hear it faintly in Norwich sure
enough the sneezing is slowing down
that's amazing it should come to stop
anyway I think it's something for you I
give it as my gift
no sorry you're meant to do good jokes
right well I can go now I've made you
laugh
end of the interview right that's it
coming up literally no one has said
summer that's hurt my feelings because
they live in a beaten cracking jokes
don't do it every fine in the age of
outrage you can tell people I'm an
arsehole good luck to you but I'm gonna
carry on saying what the fuck I want
and the biggest laugh that's all I've
got on me that'll do at Ricky's expense
it's not very often I get paid for doing
the interview here though thank you very
much you're actually taking it that's
next on 60 minutes I understand that the
town of Hampstead or the village has
more millionaires than any other town is
that true yeah I mean it's a beautiful
place I like it because it's like the
great grand daughters and sons of like
painters and poets and me new money I
felt like it was the Beverly Hillbillies
and I've arrived
you know people looking at curtains
going who is this week Ricky Gervais
walks his neighborhood in London's
Hampstead every day and no one bothered
she get famous it's on the mean streets
of social media where the comedian cups
his slings and arrows
no one's ever upset me on Twitter
literally no one has said sum up that's
hurt my feelings because they live in a
bin you know I mean there's someone in
the bin and I go you you'd laugh you
know what it's like no one can hurt my
feelings I'm too happy trouble is with
Holocaust films there's never any gag
reel on the DVDs I don't know there
isn't don't do it every five don't think
that Gervaise is Kells or offhand with
these outrageous comedy you've got a
worse one
yeah I'm not too sure about that one
every line is considered and lovingly
crafted our next presenter is the queen
of pop not you out and sit down this is
do you ever say the thing and then say I
shouldn't have said yeah oh yeah it's
office ago of course people think I just
I go around saying well I don't you know
course you said so and you think about
it and it's it's calculated people think
I got you know and host the Golden
Globes and I'm just riffing and saying
the worst thing I can think of it's
nonsense of you know I want a joke to be
bulletproof I want to be able to offend
defender in ten years time we live in a
great age of offense don't we people
take offense by proxy on behalf of other
people are not even offended
well they do I think their people are
professionally offended you go around
looking for it you know you they really
do seek it out it's like that they
uncover things to be offended they go
back and find ten year old tweets that
this clickbait headlines that I see so
often um so and so said a thing and
people are furious and not only are we
not furious most of us we don't care we
wouldn't even known about it if you
hadn't have found it in printed it and
told us we're furious so it's it's just
this vicious cycle but no I don't care
and and um likewise I I'm I know people
are allowed to be offended by things
I've said that's up to them kids are
scroungers okay I mean from day one it's
only main name
feed me clothe me pay for my
chemotherapy ricky gervais sis firm
belief that nothing literally nothing is
beyond a joke has led him into
controversy not my problem son territory
he thoroughly enjoys look at the draw
boy luck of the draw nothing should be
beyond a joke well there's no subject
you shouldn't joke about but it depends
on the target people get offended when
their mistake the subject of a joke with
the actual target and they're not
necessarily the same I'm an atheist I
don't run into churches and say this is
a load of bollocks it's not the forum
for it but when I'm tweeting and when
I'm doing that's my church you've come
in this is my house my rules
if you don't like it you can leave you
can leave that's that's thing that's you
you that's your form of protest you can
leave and never watch me again you can
tell people oh man our soul good luck to
you but I'm gonna carry on saying what
the fuck I want saying whatever he wants
has certainly been lucrative but it's
also led to suggestions from pesky
journals that he's grown so rich is
forgotten where he comes from
but for Ricky that's just more father do
you know how much a pint of milk is was
meant to make you look out of touch and
I don't know but that's irrelevant right
it's time a journalist asked me that
honestly I don't know mate there's a
grand run and get me well more yeah how
much is a pint of milk
I still don't know we don't have real
milk in the house now we have some
pharmacist I don't know yeah I do know I
do yeah yeah yeah you know what
embarrassingly I Slevin bothered fucking
looking at you said the next time a
journalist says that how much to point
the mill I'm gonna say is a grand run
and get me what have you got that's all
I've got on me that'll do
thank you it's not very often I get paid
for doing it interview here that it's
making me feel funny he's taken 50 quid
thank you very much he's actually taking
it I'll buy a beer it's such a
remarkable story of a clever thoughtful
boy who once wanted to explore life as a
man of science
he works in cartoons doing something
much the same in the equally serious
business of making people laugh if you
want the rainbow you've got up up with
the rain you know which philosopher said
that Dolly Parton it always comes back
to us you know why are we here well we
just happened to be here we couldn't
choose it the chance of us being born
that sperm hid in that egg is 400
trillion to 1 we're not special we're
just lucky and this is a holiday we
didn't exist for 14 and a half billion
years then we got 80 or 90 years if
we're lucky and then we're never exist
again so we should make the most of it
Gervase is trademark gravy our humor is
fatalistic we will all learn that here
so why not at least have a laugh along
the way everyone should do their funeral
whenever they want everyone gets one
funeral right everyone comes along
everyone does the epitaph whenever they
want whenever their help that's what you
see we should do it and then you were
there and then when they die but what
would we say about you fell asleep No
here lies Ricky Gervais is he had a
laugh and then found a lump
hello I'm Charles Wooley
thanks for watching to keep up with the
latest from 60 minutes Australia make
sure you subscribe to our channel you
can also download the 9 now app for full
episodes and other exclusive 60 minutes
content